>> Woodruff: THE U.S. AND
PARTNERING ARAB NATIONS LAUNCHED
AIR AND CRUISE MISSILE STRIKES
ACROSS SYRIA AIMED AT CRIPPLING
ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
GWEN IFILL IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS TUESDAY: AS
WORLD LEADERS GATHER IN NEW
YORK, CLIMATE CHANGE TAKES THE
SPOTLIGHT.
WE TALK WITH THE WOMAN LEADING
THE UNITED NATIONS' EFFORTS,
FORMER IRISH PRESIDENT MARY
ROBINSON.
PLUS, A DIFFERENT BREED OF
HACKERS BREACH THE GENETICS OF
LIVING THINGS TO CREATE WHAT WAS
ONCE ONLY IMAGINED.
>> AS AN ENGINEER WORKING WITH
BIOLOGY, I VIEW BIOLOGY NOT AS A
SCIENCE, BUT AS A PLATFORM FOR
MAKING, FOR MANUFACTURING.
I WANT TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO
PARTNER WITH LIFE TO MAKE THE
THINGS WE NEED, IN A WAY THAT'S
SUSTAINABLE AND BEAUTIFUL.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE AIR WAR AGAINST
"ISLAMIC STATE" FORCES HAS NOW
MOVED INTO SYRIA.
BOMBS AND MISSILES RAINED DOWN
ON TARGETS THERE OVERNIGHT.
ANOTHER GROUP WAS ALSO HIT TO
AVERT A POSSIBLE ATTACK ON THE
UNITED STATES ITSELF.
IN ALL, THE  MORE THAN 200 AIR
STRIKES, INCLUDED BOMBING FROM
U.S. CARRIER-BASED AIRCRAFT, AS
WELL AS SORTIES FROM REGIONAL
ARAB NATIONS, PLUS NEARLY 50
TOMAHAWK CRUISE MISSILES
LAUNCHED FROM U.S. NAVY VESSELS,
ALL AIMED AT MORE THAN A DOZEN
LOCATIONS ACROSS NORTHERN SYRIA.
THEY INCLUDED: "ISLAMIC STATE"
TRAINING CAMPS AND OTHER
FACILITIES IN RAQQAH, AND ALSO
IN HASAKAH, IN DEYR AW ZOUR, AND
HARD BY THE IRAQ BORDER AT ABU
KAMAL.
AS HE LEFT THE WHITE HOUSE THIS
MORNING, PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID
THE AERIAL ASSAULT
MADE A VITAL POINT.
>> WE WERE JOINED IN THIS ACTION
BY OUR FRIENDS AND PARTNERS--
SAUDI ARABIA, THE UNITED ARAB
EMIRATES, JORDAN, BAHRAIN, AND
QATAR-- THE STRENGTH OF THIS
COALITION MAKES IT CLEAR TO THE
WORLD THAT THIS IS NOT AMERICA'S
FIGHT ALONE.
>> Woodruff: SEPARATELY, ON ITS
OWN, THE U.S. HIT A GROUP CALLED
"KHOROSAN", AN ORGANIZATION OF
VETERAN AL QAEDA OPERATIVES.
EIGHT AIR STRIKES HIT NEAR
ALEPPO, WHERE THE KHOROSAN
MILITANTS ARE LINKED WITH THE
"AL-NUSRA FRONT", AL QAEDA'S
PRINCIPAL SYRIA FRANCHISE.
PENTAGON LEADERS SAID THE
STRIKES WERE SUCCESSFUL.
THE TOP OPERATIONS OFFICER FOR
THE JOINT CHIEFS, LIEUTENANT
GENERAL WILLIAM MAYVILLE, SAID
THE ALEPPO ATTACKS AIMED TO
DISRUPT AN ACTIVE PLOT.
>> WE'VE BEEN WATCHING THIS
GROUP CLOSELY FOR SOME TIME, AND
WE BELIEVE THE KHORASAN GROUP
WAS NEARING THE EXECUTION PHASE
OF AN ATTACK EITHER IN EUROPE,
OR THE HOMELAND.
>> Woodruff: MAYVILLE ALSO MADE
CLEAR THE AIR CAMPAIGN AGAINST
"ISLAMIC STATE" FORCES IN IRAQ
AND SYRIA IS OPEN-ENDED.
>> COULD THIS TAKE YEARS?
>> I WOULD THINK OF IT IN TERMS
OF YEARS, YES.
>> Woodruff: THERE WERE SOME
REPORTS OF CIVILIANS KILLED ON
THE GROUND AND VIDEO OF SYRIANS
APPARENTLY TRYING TO DIG OUT
PEOPLE TRAPPED IN RUBBLE.
MAYVILLE SAID THEY WERE
"UNAWARE" OF ANY CIVILIAN
DEATHS.
HE ALSO CONFIRMED THE U.S.
CARRIED OUT THE VAST MAJORITY OF
THE BOMBING.
BUT JORDAN, BAHRAIN, SAUDI
ARABIA AND THE UNITED ARAB
EMIRATES ALL FLEW COMBAT
MISSIONS, TOO, WHILE QATAR
PROVIDED SUPPORT.
JORDAN'S INFORMATION MINISTER
SPOKE IN AMMAN.
>> WE WILL CONTINUE TO IDENTIFY
AND TO ATTACK THE POSITIONS OF
THESE TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS,
IN ORDER TO SECURE OUR COUNTRY
AND OUR NATIONAL INTEREST.
>> Woodruff: THE STATE
DEPARTMENT DENIED REPORTS THAT
IT "COORDINATED" WITH SYRIAN
PRESIDENT BASHAR AL-ASSAD.
IT DID SAY THE U.S. ALERTED
DAMASCUS AHEAD OF THE STRIKES.
AFTER THE STRIKES, THE SYRIAN
GOVERNMENT ISSUED ITS OWN
STATEMENT ON STATE TELEVISION.
>> ( translated ): SYRIA WILL
SUPPORT ANY INTERNATIONAL EFFORT
THAT MAY HELP IN FIGHTING
TERRORISM.
BUT THIS SHOULD NOT AFFECT THE
LIVES OF CIVILIANS AND NATIONAL
SOVEREIGNTY OF SYRIA AS WELL AS
THE INTERNATIONAL LAWS.
>> Woodruff: ON THE STREETS OF
DAMASCUS TODAY, REACTIONS TO THE
AIR CAMPAIGN VARIED.
>> WHEN WE SEE AMERICAN
WARPLANES FLYING IN THE AIR OVER
SYRIA, IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO BE
OPTIMISTIC ABOUT THIS THING.
WITH ALL MY RESPECT TO AMERICA,
IT SHOULD STAND BY THE SYRIAN
GOVERNMENT'S SIDE IN A SERIOUS,
WAY.
>> Woodruff: THERE WAS ALSO WORD
THAT A KEY NATO ALLY MIGHT JOIN